In this short screen recording, I'm going
to use what we've covered in the module so
far and search for some sources in ProQuest
Central.
I chose ProQuest Central because it's a great
place to start searching and it has a number
of filters and other options that will help
me find exactly what I'm looking for.
I'm starting on the HPU Libraries homepage,
which has a convenient link to ProQuest Central
under this "Popular Databases" heading.
Even though there are a lot of options on
this page, I'm going to start by simply typing
in my general research topic, "social media
and mental health."
Like we covered earlier in the module, there
are a ton of results here.
Looking at the left side, I can see the various
types of sources my search has found.
For this assignment, I need at least 5 sources,
and 3 of those have to be scholarly, peer-reviewed
journal articles.
Even though I could use newspapers, magazines,
and other types of sources for the remaining
two sources I'll need, I'm going to limit
this search to scholarly, peer-reviewed journals.
Even though almost eight thousand results
is way too many to look through, it looks
like some of these articles might be useful.
I want to narrow my results even further,
so I'm going to use some of the keywords I
came up with earlier.
I'm curious about TikTok as a platform specifically,
so I'm going to go ahead and add that keyword
to my search.
Looking through these results, a number of
them have piqued my interest.
Some are giving me other ideas for related
search terms, like this one, titled, "Body
Esteem, Self Esteem, and Loneliness among
Social Media Young Users."
I'm going to open this article in another
tab to come back to later, but I want to try
removing "TikTok" from my search and add "loneliness"
instead.
As I find more articles that might be useful,
I need to make sure I'm able to access them
later.
ProQuest Central offers me a few ways to do
this, such as downloading the PDF to my computer,
emailing it to myself, or generating a citation
with a working link.
Even though many of our library resources
look different, they generally have similar
functionality.
If you run into a problem, get stuck, or have
a question, please don't hesitate to reach
out to a librarian!